Aescal's Ring_magic|This ring bears the name "Aescal". Perhaps this Aescal was an adventurer like you. You have to wonder why it's not still in Aescal's possession though. It may be a good or neutral reason, or it may be unfortunate...
Airy Stone_magic|The burden of your equipment and loot has lightened! Either you've been pickpocketed, or this stone is to blame.
Alabaster Lizard_magic|This is a small sculpture. It seems to be magical, and will probably summon something like what it depicts when rubbed. Maybe.
Alien Blade_magic|This waveblade is strange even by the usual standards. The hilt design, the pattern of the blade, and of course, the slime that drips from its edges.
Amber Periapt_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. This piece is meant to be worn about the neck. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Ambrosia_magic|This is the food of the gods! Somehow some of it ended up in your mortal hands. Swallowing this beverage will probably have very powerful and positive effects on you.
Amulet of the Cobra_magic|This small amulet, featuring a serpentine design and made of lead, a rather heavy but also rather poisonous metal, makes your fingertips feel very hardened for a few moments after you rub it. This could help you apply poison to your weapons more safely and effectively.
Archer's Bow_magic|A bow is a curved object, usually wood, with a string tied to both ends. When flexed and released, it can fling an arrow for quite some distance and with quite a punch. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Arrows|Arrows are the ammunition for most bows. They are straight sticks with pointed heads and feather tails for balance and stability when fired. Crossbows are different; they use bolts as ammunition.
Arrows of Life_magic|Arrows are the ammunition for most bows. They are straight sticks with pointed heads and feather tails for balance and stability when fired. Crossbows are different; they use bolts as ammunition. It seems someone has enchanted these. They may be even more effective than usual.
Arrows of Light_magic|Arrows are the ammunition for most bows. They are straight sticks with pointed heads and feather tails for balance and stability when fired. Crossbows are different; they use bolts as ammunition. It seems someone has enchanted these. They may be even more effective than usual.
Asp Fangs|This is an alchemical ingredient. If you know the recipe, have the right combination of ingredients, and have studied up on technique, you can use it to make a potion.
Aspskin Gloves_magic|Gloves are pieces of cloth or leather, stitched together in a shape that will cover the hands. They have many uses, but they will not usually provide protection from combat weapons. This unusual pair happens to be made from a poisonous snake's skin. Maybe it's got some special property.
Asptongue Mold|This is an alchemical ingredient. If you know the recipe, have the right combination of ingredients, and have studied up on technique, you can use it to make a potion.
Assassin's Knife_magic|This knife can be used to slice vegetables for a lovely stir fry. This knife will help you prepare a stir fry that will kill anyone who eats it. It's smeared with poison that never seems to wear off.
Basic Necklace_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. This piece is meant to be worn about the neck. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Basic Powder_magic|This is a small pouch of powder. Dirt is a powder, but a small pouch of dirt has few useful or harmful properties. This probably isn't dirt, so be careful with it.
Boltblade_magic|This short sword seems to have wand-like magical properties to it. You can stab or slash something with it, or you could just wave it at them...
Bolts|Bolts are the ammunition for crossbows. The are shorter, sturdier, and differently balanced than arrows. Bolts can also be used to hold two objects together when inserted through a hole and combined with a nut and washer. But not these bolts. These are for killing.
Bones|Sadly, not everyone who goes on an adventure survives to tell the tale. This unfortunate soul, whether by a life of hardship or the fangs of a beast, has met its end and perhaps, with luck, has gone to a better place. And now you're disturbing its remains. How thoughtful of you.
Book|Books are one of the most valuable innovations society has developed. Whether they contain historical information, valuable instruction on casting spells or performing a trade, or even just pleasant works of fiction, books have enabled us to share what we know with others, present and future!
Boots|Boots are a type of footwear, usually for use during heavy physical activity that may endanger the feet or ankles. Some of them are more decorative than functional. These are functional.
Boots of Apollo_magic|Boots are a type of footwear, usually for use during heavy physical activity that may endanger the feet or ankles. Some of them are more decorative than functional. This pair features a sun-and-chariot design and seems to glow a little. It probably has some special property.
Boots of Speed_magic|Boots are a type of footwear, usually for use during heavy physical activity that may endanger the feet or ankles. Some of them are more decorative than functional. These specific boots have a magical sensation about them, and probably have some special property.
Bottle|A bottle is a good way to store liquids of various sorts. Easy to hold, easy to pour. Be careful with the unlabeled ones.
Bow of Kag_magic|This bow bears the name "Kag". Perhaps this Kag was an adventurer like you. You have to wonder why it's not still in Kag's possession though. It may be a good or neutral reason, or it may be unfortunate...
Bread and Meat|We need to eat food to survive. Sadly, not all of it is appetizing or up to the standards of modern society, but sometimes you have to take what you can get.
Brew of Battle_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Brew of Ironskin_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Brew of Knowledge_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Brew of Lethe_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Bronze Axe|Axes, originally designed for cutting trees, have been redeveloped for cleaving skulls and beheading the condemned as well.
Bronze Bardiche|A bardiche is a very long polearm with a large blade on one end. Unlike spears, it is meant for cleaving rather than stabbing. It is very difficult to use and must be held in both hands. It's good to use from a distance.
Bronze Breastplate|Breastplates are chain mail armor with large plates of metal covering the chest. They offer more protection for your vital organs than simple chain mail, but they're rather heavy.
Bronze Broadsword|Broadswords are broad swords. More specifically, they're big, heavy swords, with a lot of momentum. Most people can't wield them one-handed, although if one were very strong it could work.
Bronze Buckler|A buckler is a small, light shield, worn on the forearm. These are useful for blocking blows in agile combat.
Bronze Chain Mail|Chain mail is made from interlocking rings of metal wire. It's very flexible and good at distributing blows, including blows from swords. It's still heavy though, and a heavy enough blow to it will still result in shattered bones.
Bronze Club|Next to rocks, clubs are the simplest weapon in an adventurer's arsenal. Instructions for preparation and use: 1. Find something long and heavy. 2. Pick it up. 3. Whack someone with it. Pretty easy, although not always too effective.
Bronze Flail|A flail is one or more spiky balls of metal, suspended from chains at the end of a stick. They are operated by being swung around utilizing centipetal force, and then slammed into someone's face.
Bronze Gauntlets|Gauntlets are metal gloves, designed to protect the hands and fingers. Once they grip a weapon, they make it harder to lose fingers, but they do not tend to allow for great flexibility or dexterity.
Bronze Great Mace|The great mace. In case you want to splatter your foes instead of just killing them. The king of clubs, and we're not talking cards.
Bronze Greathelm|This is a helmet, designed to protect the wearer's head and face. Most helmets will protect the crown of the head, the sides, and maybe the neck. This greathelm has shielding for the face as well, with slits to see and breathe through but otherwise offering good coverage.
Bronze Greatsword|This is a really, really, really big sword. It's very unwieldy but if you manage to hit someone in the leg with one, they will probably not have that leg anymore.
Bronze Halberd|A halberd is a long polearm with a spike and a blade on one end. It's good for stabbing and chopping, although due to its length it is difficult to use. It must be held in both hands.
Bronze Hammer|This is a large hammer. This is not for driving nails, unless they are very large nails that are trying to kill you.
Bronze Helm|A helmet is a good way to protect your head from injury, taking hits and absorbing damage in the stead of your brain.
Bronze Knife|This knife can be used to slice vegetables for a lovely stir fry. However, it's mostly designed for stabbing people. Please wash it before slicing your vegetables.
Bronze Large Shield|A large shield is, as the name implies, a very large shield. These are typically used in formation, with polearms sticking between them. They're also good for blocking arrows. They are very unwieldy and provide more protection than most shields, at the cost of the user's ability to attack effectively.
Bronze Mace|An upgrade to the club, a mace is not just a heavy stick, but is actually a very sturdy stick with a big, heavy head at the end, coming in any number of shapes. Much more effective. You're still unlikely to impress anyone with it.
Bronze Plate|Plate armor is made from multiple large, interlocking plates. They offer superb protection due to their weight and rigidity. The same weight and rigidity also make them very hard to move in, however.
Bronze Plate Armor|Plate armor is made from multiple large, interlocking plates. They offer superb protection due to their weight and rigidity. The same weight and rigidity also make them very hard to move in, however.
Bronze Rapier|A rapier is a long, thin sword, good for quick, agile swordplay. They call it swordplay. It's not really playing. For you, this is a game. You're playing a game. Your poor little pixel adventurer is in constant danger, at your command. Please play responsibly.
Bronze Ring|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance. This one included. It's worth quite a bit though.
Bronze Ring of Accuracy_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Bronze Ring of Prot._magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Bronze Ring of Regen._magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Bronze Ring of Skill_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Bronze Ring of Weight_cursed|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance. Whatever religion this was significant for isn't one you want to be a part of, judging by the eerie inscriptions...
Bronze Serpent Ring_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. This one features a creepy snake design. It doesn't seem to be cursed, though. It may even be helpful...
Bronze Shield|This is a mid-sized shield. It's good for blocking blows from large weapons while poking your sword or spear around it. If really needed you can hit someone with it, but it's not at all an effective weapon, so don't expect to use it as one.
Bronze Short Sword|A short sword is designed as a good sidearm, lightweight and quick to draw and swing in close combat. In a pinch they can be used as a primary weapon.
Bronze Spear|A spear is a long, straight pole with a pointy thing on the end. It's good for impaling your foes. Some spears are balanced for throwing: These are called javelins. This is not a javelin you are examining. It is just a spear.
Bronze Studded Armor|This is hardened leather armor, with studs of metal poking through it. It's a step up from simple leather armor, as the studs will distribute blows a bit. This is the lightest armor most serious melee fighters will want to wear.
Bronze Wave Blade|This is an exceptionally well-crafted sword, the blade of which is forged into a distinctive wave pattern. The Vahnatai, a peculiar race that lives below the ground, are proud of these unusual swords – hard to use, but really painful.
Burning Arrows_magic|Arrows are the ammunition for most bows. They are straight sticks with pointed heads and feather tails for balance and stability when fired. Crossbows are different; they use bolts as ammunition. It seems someone has enchanted these. They may be even more effective than usual.
Candle|Some parts of the lands you'll explore are very dark. Darkness makes it difficult to see where you walk, objects in your path, and who or what you are stabbing with your sword. Candles will do the job, but not well. They're more for lighting homes than caves.
Cavewood Bow|A bow is a curved object, usually wood, with a string tied to both ends. When flexed and released, it can fling an arrow for quite some distance and with quite a punch.
Cleansing Powder_magic|This is a small pouch of powder. Dirt is a powder, but a small pouch of dirt has few useful or harmful properties. This probably isn't dirt, so be careful with it.
Comfrey Root|This is an alchemical ingredient. If you know the recipe, have the right combination of ingredients, and have studied up on technique, you can use it to make a potion.
Crossbow|Crossbows are similar to bows. You stick a bolt on the notch, point, and pull the trigger, and the bolt goes flying toward somebody with the intention of hurting them. It's easier to use than a bow but it's heavier, and bolts may be harder to find than arrows.
Crude Buckler|A buckler is a small, light shield, worn on the forearm. These are useful for blocking blows in agile combat.
Crude Large Shield|A large shield is, as the name implies, a very large shield. These are typically used in formation, with polearms sticking between them. They're also good for blocking arrows. They are very unwieldy and provide more protection than most shields, at the cost of the user's ability to attack effectively.
Crude Shield|This is a mid-sized shield. It's good for blocking blows from large weapons while poking your sword or spear around it. If really needed you can hit someone with it, but it's not at all an effective weapon, so don't expect to use it as one.
Crystal|This is a gem or crystal. They can be very valuable, especially if they have few imperfections and are cut right. Some go beyond being pretty, though. A good crystal, besides enchanting the heart of the object of your affections, can be excellent enchanting material itself.
Crystal Shield_magic|This shield has a peculiar, translucent crystal window in it. If you didn't want to look directly at something you were fighting, this might help.
Crystal Wand_magic|A wand is a fancy stick or rod. Sometimes they're used for ceremonial purposes by clergy or royalty. This one is magical. Waving it will result in a magical effect or spell being cast, which could be good or bad...
Cursed Axe_cursed|Most of the equipment adventurers use is meant to aid in combat or other activities, but this item has an unpleasant sensation around it. It appears someone or something put a curse on it. You can use it and it may even be useful, but it'll have negative effects, and you may not be able to put it down easily...
Cursed Boots_cursed|Most of the equipment adventurers use is meant to aid in combat or other activities, but this item has an unpleasant sensation around it. It appears someone or something put a curse on it. You can use it and it may even be useful, but it'll have negative effects, and you may not be able to put it down easily...
Cursed Broadsword_cursed|Most of the equipment adventurers use is meant to aid in combat or other activities, but this item has an unpleasant sensation around it. It appears someone or something put a curse on it. You can use it and it may even be useful, but it'll have negative effects, and you may not be able to put it down easily...
Cursed Greatsword_cursed|Most of the equipment adventurers use is meant to aid in combat or other activities, but this item has an unpleasant sensation around it. It appears someone or something put a curse on it. You can use it and it may even be useful, but it'll have negative effects, and you may not be able to put it down easily...
Cursed Halberd_cursed|Most of the equipment adventurers use is meant to aid in combat or other activities, but this item has an unpleasant sensation around it. It appears someone or something put a curse on it. You can use it and it may even be useful, but it'll have negative effects, and you may not be able to put it down easily...
Cursed Helm_cursed|Most of the equipment adventurers use is meant to aid in combat or other activities, but this item has an unpleasant sensation around it. It appears someone or something put a curse on it. You can use it and it may even be useful, but it'll have negative effects, and you may not be able to put it down easily...
Cursed Knife_cursed|Most of the equipment adventurers use is meant to aid in combat or other activities, but this item has an unpleasant sensation around it. It appears someone or something put a curse on it. You can use it and it may even be useful, but it'll have negative effects, and you may not be able to put it down easily...
Cursed Mace_cursed|Most of the equipment adventurers use is meant to aid in combat or other activities, but this item has an unpleasant sensation around it. It appears someone or something put a curse on it. You can use it and it may even be useful, but it'll have negative effects, and you may not be able to put it down easily...
Cursed Ring_cursed|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance. Whatever religion this was significant for isn't one you want to be a part of, judging by the eerie inscriptions...
Cursed Shield_cursed|Most of the equipment adventurers use is meant to aid in combat or other activities, but this item has an unpleasant sensation around it. It appears someone or something put a curse on it. You can use it and it may even be useful, but it'll have negative effects, and you may not be able to put it down easily...
Dancing Boots_cursed|Boots are a type of footwear, usually for use during heavy physical activity that may endanger the feet or ankles. Some of them are more decorative than functional. This pair is twitching in a disturbing fashion...
Dart of Returning_magic|This is a single dart, a little fancier than most. More interesting than the fanciness is that when you throw it, it strikes its target and then safely flies back to your hand. This may come in handy if you are practicing for the tournament in the local tavern.
Darts|Blowgun darts can be poisoned and can be fast, silent, and effective killers. These are not blowgun darts. These are darts you throw. They are not effective weapons but they're better than nothing in a pinch.
Demonslayer_magic|This sword of legend was used to slay a number of very powerful demons during the founding and defense of the Kingdom of Exile. Repaired was the blade that was damaged, not all who adventure are confused...
Diamond|This is a gem or crystal. They can be very valuable, especially if they have few imperfections and are cut right. Some go beyond being pretty, though. A good crystal, besides enchanting the heart of the object of your affections, can be excellent enchanting material itself.
Diamond Necklace|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. This piece is meant to be worn about the neck. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance. This one included. It's worth quite a bit though.
Dust of Choking_magic|This is a small pouch of powder. Dirt is a powder, but a small pouch of dirt has few useful or harmful properties. This probably isn't dirt, so be careful with it.
Dust of Hiding_magic|This is a small pouch of powder. Dirt is a powder, but a small pouch of dirt has few useful or harmful properties. This probably isn't dirt, so be careful with it.
Ebony Lizard_magic|This is a small sculpture. It seems to be magical, and will probably summon something like what it depicts when rubbed. Maybe.
Ember Flowers|This is an alchemical ingredient. If you know the recipe, have the right combination of ingredients, and have studied up on technique, you can use it to make a potion.
Emerald|This is a gem or crystal. They can be very valuable, especially if they have few imperfections and are cut right. Some go beyond being pretty, though. A good crystal, besides enchanting the heart of the object of your affections, can be excellent enchanting material itself.
Emerald Helm_magic|A helmet is a good way to protect your head from injury, taking hits and absorbing damage in the stead of your brain. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Exploding Arrows_magic|Arrows are the ammunition for most bows. They are straight sticks with pointed heads and feather tails for balance and stability when fired. Crossbows are different; they use bolts as ammunition. It seems someone has enchanted these. They may be even more effective than usual.
Fang Necklace_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. This piece is a string of teeth of some undetermined species. to wear about the neck. Despite the creepy materials, you feel more confident when you touch it. It must be blessed by some primative tribal deity.
Feldspar Charm_cursed|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. This piece is meant to be worn about the neck. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance. Whatever religion this was significant for isn't one you want to be a part of, judging by the eerie inscriptions...
Fine Crossbow|Crossbows are similar to bows. You stick a bolt on the notch, point, and pull the trigger, and the bolt goes flying toward somebody with the intention of hurting them. It's easier to use than a bow but it's heavier, and bolts may be harder to find than arrows.
Fine Lockpicks|Lockpicks are for subtly getting through locks without using a key or smashing them. It's less dangerous and makes you less likely to get caught, but lockpicks take much skill to use effectively.
Fire Orb Necklace_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. This piece is meant to be worn about the neck. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Firestone_magic|This appears to be a mundane rock, although there's something odd and magical about it.
Flaming Sword_magic|This sword is growing red with heat. Swinging it produces a trail of hot flames! This will easily burn anyone struck with its blade, sharp and deadly already. They say a sword like this defends paradise from the outcast...
Garbage|Um... This is useless. It may also be dirty and germy. Maybe shards of broken glass, rotten, moldy food and worse... Why did you pick it up?
Giantish Gauntlets_magic|Gauntlets are metal gloves, designed to protect the hands and fingers. Once they grip a weapon, they make it harder to lose fingers, but they do not tend to allow for great flexibility or dexterity. It seems someone has enchanted this pair. They may be even more effective than usual.
Glowing Nettle|This is an alchemical ingredient. If you know the recipe, have the right combination of ingredients, and have studied up on technique, you can use it to make a potion.
Glue Gauntlets_cursed|Gauntlets are metal gloves, designed to protect the hands and fingers. Once they grip a weapon, they make it harder to lose fingers, but they do not tend to allow for great flexibility or dexterity. This pair has a funny, chemical smell to it...
Gold|Gold, silver, copper, gems, trade goods. Sad though it is, it's hard to get what you need in life without money.
Gold Bar|This is an ingot of metal. Ingots are formed from molten metal poured into molds. It allows for easy storage and transport, compared to, say, carrying a sack of nuggets or coins. It's also easier to standardize the weight this way. The ingot may have a mark on it indicating its purity and place of creation.
Gold Necklace|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. This piece is meant to be worn about the neck. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance. This one included. It's worth quite a bit though.
Gold Ore|This is a lump of rock, glistening with precious metal. Nothing can be done with it in its current form. It's worthless for you but you could sell it. A metallurgist would like it.
Gold Ring|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance. This one included. It's worth quite a bit though.
Gold Ring of Accuracy_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Gold Ring of Prot._magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Gold Ring of Regen._magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Gold Ring of Skill_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Gold Ring of Weight_cursed|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance. Whatever religion this was significant for isn't one you want to be a part of, judging by the eerie inscriptions...
Gold Serpent Ring_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. This one features a creepy snake design. It doesn't seem to be cursed, though. It may even be helpful...
Gold Statue_magic|This is a small sculpture. It seems to be magical, and will probably summon something like what it depicts when rubbed. Maybe.
Goo Bomb_magic|This is a gem or crystal. They can be very valuable, especially if they have few imperfections and are cut right. Some go beyond being pretty, though. A good crystal, besides enchanting the heart of the object of your affections, can be excellent enchanting material itself.
Good Sandwich|We need to eat food to survive. Sadly, not all of it is appetizing or up to the standards of modern society, but sometimes you have to take what you can get.
Graymold|This is an alchemical ingredient. If you know the recipe, have the right combination of ingredients, and have studied up on technique, you can use it to make a potion.
Graymold Salve_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Rubbing in this lotion will have some sort of effect on the body.
Gremlin Wine_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Helm of Alertness_magic|A helmet is a good way to protect your head from injury, taking hits and absorbing damage in the stead of your brain. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Helm of Speed_magic|A helmet is a good way to protect your head from injury, taking hits and absorbing damage in the stead of your brain. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Holly|This is an alchemical ingredient. If you know the recipe, have the right combination of ingredients, and have studied up on technique, you can use it to make a potion.
Horn of Warriors_magic|This is the horn of a bull or ram, hollowed, with the tip cut off to blow into and make a loud sound. Armies throughout history have used horns to signal and rally the troops. This one, simple in form though it is, seems to be enchanted. Maybe this one will also bring an army to your aid?
Iceshield_magic|This is a mid-sized shield. It's good for blocking blows from large weapons while poking your sword or spear around it. It seems someone has enchanted this one. They may be even more effective than usual.
Iron Arrows|Arrows are the ammunition for most bows. They are straight sticks with pointed heads and feather tails for balance and stability when fired. Crossbows are different; they use bolts as ammunition.
Iron Axe|Axes, originally designed for cutting trees, have been redeveloped for cleaving skulls and beheading the condemned as well.
Iron Bar|This is an ingot of metal. Ingots are formed from molten metal poured into molds. It allows for easy storage and transport, compared to, say, carrying a sack of nuggets or coins. It's also easier to standardize the weight this way. The ingot may have a mark on it indicating its purity and place of creation.
Iron Bardiche|A bardiche is a very long polearm with a large blade on one end. Unlike spears, it is meant for cleaving rather than stabbing. It is very difficult to use and must be held in both hands. It's good to use from a distance.
Iron Bolts|Bolts are the ammunition for crossbows. The are shorter, sturdier, and differently balanced than arrows. Bolts can also be used to hold two objects together when inserted through a hole and combined with a nut and washer. But not these bolts. These are for killing.
Iron Breastplate|Breastplates are chain mail armor with large plates of metal covering the chest. They offer more protection for your vital organs than simple chain mail, but they're rather heavy.
Iron Broadsword|Broadswords are broad swords. More specifically, they're big, heavy swords, with a lot of momentum. Most people can't wield them one-handed, but adventurers aren't most people.
Iron Buckler|A buckler is a small, light shield, worn on the forearm. These are useful for blocking blows in agile combat.
Iron Chain Mail|Chain mail is made from interlocking rings of metal wire. It's very flexible and good at distributing blows, including blows from swords. It's still heavy though, and a heavy enough blow to it will still result in shattered bones.
Iron Darts|Blowgun darts can be poisoned and can be fast, silent, and effective killers. These are not blowgun darts. These are darts you throw. They are not effective weapons but they're better than nothing in a pinch.
Iron Flail|A flail is one or more spiky balls of metal, suspended from chains at the end of a stick. They are operated by being swung around utilizing centipetal force, and then slammed into someone's face.
Iron Gauntlets|Gauntlets are metal gloves, designed to protect the hands and fingers. Once they grip a weapon, they make it harder to lose fingers, but they do not tend to allow for great flexibility or dexterity.
Iron Great Mace|The great mace. In case you want to splatter your foes instead of just killing them. The king of clubs, and we're not talking cards.
Iron Greathelm|This is a helmet, designed to protect the wearer's head and face. Most helmets will protect the crown of the head, the sides, and maybe the neck. This greathelm has shielding for the face as well, with slits to see and breathe through but otherwise offering good coverage.
Iron Greatsword|This is a really, really, really big sword. It's very unwieldy but if you manage to hit someone in the leg with one, they will probably not have that leg anymore.
Iron Halberd|A halberd is a long polearm with a spike and a blade on one end. It's good for stabbing and chopping, although due to its length it is difficult to use. It must be held in both hands.
Iron Hammer|This is a large hammer. This is not for driving nails, unless they are very large nails that are trying to kill you.
Iron Helm|A helmet is a good way to protect your head from injury, taking hits and absorbing damage in the stead of your brain.
Iron Javelins|Javelins are long, pointy sticks designed for throwing. Some can be flung with launchers for greater distance and speed, if you have one. If you hit someone with it with enough force, it can be deadly, but it's not as deadly as walking up and stabbing them. It may be less deadly for you too, though.
Iron Knife|This knife can be used to slice vegetables for a lovely stir fry. However, it's mostly designed for stabbing people. Please wash it before slicing your vegetables.
Iron Large Shield|A large shield is, as the name implies, a very large shield. These are typically used in formation, with polearms sticking between them. They're also good for blocking arrows. They are very unwieldy and provide more protection than most shields, at the cost of the user's ability to attack effectively.
Iron Mace|An upgrade to the club, a mace is not just a heavy stick, but is actually a very sturdy stick with a big, heavy head at the end, coming in any number of shapes. Much more effective. You're still unlikely to impress anyone with it.
Iron Plate|Plate armor is made from multiple large, interlocking plates. They offer superb protection due to their weight and rigidity. The same weight and rigidity also make them very hard to move in, however.
Iron Plate Armor|Plate armor is made from multiple large, interlocking plates. They offer superb protection due to their weight and rigidity. The same weight and rigidity also make them very hard to move in, however.
Iron Rapier|A rapier is a long, thin sword, good for quick, agile swordplay. They call it swordplay. It's not really playing. For you, this is a game. You're playing a game. Your poor little pixel adventurer is in constant danger, at your command. Please play responsibly.
Iron Razordisks|These are flat discs of metal, the edges honed into a ring of small, razor-sharp teeth. Their aerodynamic shape makes them deadly in combat, but a novice user must take care not to cut themselves when throwing them. The Vahnatai, a race which lives far, far below the ground, are quite fond of these unusual weapons.
Iron Shield|This is a mid-sized shield. It's good for blocking blows from large weapons while poking your sword or spear around it. If really needed you can hit someone with it, but it's not at all an effective weapon, so don't expect to use it as one.
Iron Short Sword|A short sword is designed as a good sidearm, lightweight and quick to draw and swing in close combat. In a pinch they can be used as a primary weapon.
Iron Slith Spear|This is a long, straight pole with a multi-tined blade affixed to the end. The Slithzerikai use these unusual spears in combat. These should not be confused with tridents, which are multi-tined harpoons designed for fishing. A slith spear is not for fishing.
Iron Spear|A spear is a long, straight pole with a pointy thing on the end. It's good for impaling your foes. Some spears are balanced for throwing: These are called javelins. This is not a javelin you are examining. It is just a spear.
Iron Studded Armor|This is hardened leather armor, with studs of metal poking through it. It's a step up from simple leather armor, as the studs will distribute blows a bit. This is the lightest armor most serious melee fighters will want to wear.
Iron Throwing Knives|These blades are superb for a close morning shave. They're also good for tossing at things you want to kill. Don't ding them up too much with your beard, they won't be as aerodynamic.
Iron Wave Blade|This is an exceptionally well-crafted sword, the blade of which is forged into a distinctive wave pattern. The Vahnatai, a peculiar race that lives below the ground, are proud of these unusual swords – hard to use, but really painful.
Ivory Bug_magic|This is a small sculpture. It seems to be magical, and will probably summon something like what it depicts when rubbed. Maybe.
Ivory Charm_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. This piece is meant to be worn about the neck. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Javelins|Javelins are long, pointy sticks designed for throwing. Some can be flung with launchers for greater distance and speed, if you have one. If you hit someone with it with enough force, it can be deadly, but it's not as deadly as walking up and stabbing them. It may be less deadly for you too, though.
Killer Poison|If you have the know-how, you can smear poison on your weaponry, causing the defender to become rather ill when you cut them. Be careful not to get it into your own system though. Poison is poisonous for you too.
Lamp|Some parts of the lands you'll explore are very dark. Darkness makes it difficult to see where you walk, objects in your path, and who or what you are stabbing with your sword. A good lantern is great for this. Miners and spelunkers rely on them. But they're bulky and heavy.
Leather Armor|This is shirt of tough leather hardened by boiling it in wax. It's good protection for the money, and it's not so heavy as to be uncomfortable on long treks. It won't help much when someone tries to stab you with a big sword though.
Leather Baldric|This is a light piece of leather armor, worn on the torso. It doesn't provide much protection by armor's standards, but it will protect against light blows, and allows easy movement compared to heavier armor.
Leather Gloves|Gloves are pieces of cloth or leather, stitched together in a shape that will cover the hands. Some are to keep warm, or to protect from caustic material, or just to look fancy. They will not usually provide protection from combat weapons, however.
Leather Greathelm|This is a helmet, designed to protect the wearer's head and face. Most helmets will protect the crown of the head, the sides, and maybe the neck. This greathelm has shielding for the face as well, with slits to see and breathe through but otherwise offering good coverage.
Leather Helm|Your head is important. Without your head, you cannot show your emotions and your communication will be misunderstood. Please protect your head. Wear a helmet.
Leather Sling|This is a strap of leather which you can use to fling any object which you can fit into it at somebody. There's always something lying around to throw, which makes this device quite flexible and useful.
Lemonwood Bow|A bow is a curved object, usually wood, with a string tied to both ends. When flexed and released, it can fling an arrow for quite some distance and with quite a punch.
Lifesaver Amulet_magic|This amulet is made of frosted glass, with light swirling within. It trembles when you are hurt. It'll probably shatter and release that light into you if you were to die, bringing you back to life. Or so you surmise.
Lifeshield_magic|This is a mid-sized shield. It's good for blocking blows from large weapons while poking your sword or spear around it. It seems someone has enchanted this one. They may be even more effective than usual.
Lightning Rods_magic|These javelins are warm to the touch, and when you grip them your hair stands on end. You can only imagine what would happen if you were to impale someone with one.
Lockpicks|Lockpicks are for subtly getting through locks without using using a key or smashing them. It's less dangerous and makes you less likely to get caught, but lockpicks take much skill to use effectively.
Lodestone_cursed|This rock isn't especially heavy. But boy, is everything else!
Mace of Disruption_magic|This mace is covered with holy symbols of life, and along its handle is a glowing inscription of a prayer to bring peace to restless souls.
Magic Arrows_magic|Arrows are the ammunition for most bows. They are straight sticks with pointed heads and feather tails for balance and stability when fired. Crossbows are different; they use bolts as ammunition. It seems someone has enchanted these. They may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Axe_magic|Axes, originally designed for cutting trees, have been redeveloped for cleaving skulls and beheading the condemned as well. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Bardiche_magic|A bardiche is a very long polearm with a large blade on one end. Unlike spears, it is meant for cleaving rather than stabbing. It is very difficult to use and must be held in both hands. It's good to use from a distance. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Bolts_magic|Bolts are the ammunition for crossbows. The are shorter, sturdier, and differently balanced than arrows. Unlike the kind used to fasten things together with nuts and washers, these bolts are just for killing. It seems someone has enchanted these. They may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Boots_magic|Boots are a type of footwear, usually for use during heavy physical activity that may endanger the feet or ankles. Some of them are more decorative than functional. These specific boots have a magical sensation about them, and probably have some special property.
Magic Bow_magic|A bow is a curved object, usually wood, with a string tied to both ends. When flexed and released, it can fling an arrow for quite some distance and with quite a punch. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Breastplate_magic|Breastplates are chain mail armor with large plates of metal covering the chest. They offer more protection for your vital organs than simple chain mail, but they're rather heavy. It seems someone has enchanted this suit. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Broadsword_magic|Broadswords are broad swords. More specifically, they're big, heavy swords, with a lot of momentum. Most people can't wield them one-handed, but adventurers aren't most people. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Buckler_magic|A buckler is a small, light shield, worn on the forearm. These are useful for blocking blows in agile combat. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Chain Mail_magic|Chain mail is made from interlocking rings of metal wire. It's very flexible and good at distributing blows, including blows from swords. It's still heavy though, and a heavy enough blow to it will still result in shattered bones. It seems someone has enchanted this suit. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Crossbow_magic|Crossbows are similar to bows. You stick a bolt on the notch, point, and pull the trigger, and the bolt goes flying toward somebody with the intention of hurting them. It's easier to use than a bow but it's heavier, and bolts may be harder to find than arrows. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Darts_magic|Blowgun darts can be poisoned and can be fast, silent, and effective killers. These are not blowgun darts. These are darts you throw. They are not effective weapons but they're better than nothing in a pinch. It seems someone has enchanted these. They may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Flail_magic|A flail is one or more spiky balls of metal, suspended from chains at the end of a stick. They are operated by being swung around utilizing centipetal force, and then slammed into someone's face. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Gauntlets_magic|Gauntlets are metal gloves, designed to protect the hands and fingers. Once they grip a weapon, they make it harder to lose fingers, but they do not tend to allow for great flexibility or dexterity. It seems someone has enchanted this pair. They may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Great Mace_magic|The great mace. In case you want to splatter your foes instead of just killing them. The king of clubs, and we're not talking cards. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Greathelm_magic|This is a helmet, designed to protect the wearer's head and face. This greathelm has shielding for the face, with slits to see and breathe but otherwise offering good coverage. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Greatsword_magic|This is a really, really, really big sword. It's very unwieldy but if you manage to hit someone in the leg with one, they will probably not have that leg anymore. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Halberd_magic|A halberd is a long polearm with a spike and a blade on one end. It's good for stabbing and chopping, although due to its length it is difficult to use. It must be held in both hands. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Hammer_magic|This is a large hammer. This is not for driving nails, unless they are very large nails that are trying to kill you. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Helm_magic|A helmet is a good way to protect your head from injury, taking hits and absorbing damage in the stead of your brain. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Knife_magic|This knife can be used to slice vegetables for a lovely stir fry. However, it's mostly designed for stabbing people. Please wash it before slicing your vegetables. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual, perhaps even aiding in combat and not just cooking.
Magic Large Shield_magic|A large shield is, as the name implies, a very large shield. They are very unwieldy and provide more protection than most shields, at the cost of the user's ability to attack effectively. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Lockpicks_magic|Lockpicks are for subtly getting through locks without using a key or smashing them. It's less dangerous and makes you less likely to get caught, but lockpicks take much skill to use effectively. It seems someone has enchanted this set. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Mace_magic|An upgrade to the club, a mace is not just a heavy stick, but is actually a very sturdy stick with a big, heavy head at the end, coming in any number of shapes. Much more effective. You're still unlikely to impress anyone with it. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Plate_magic|Plate armor is made from multiple large, interlocking plates. They offer superb protection due to their weight and rigidity. The same weight and rigidity also make them very hard to move in, however. It seems someone has enchanted this suit. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Rapier_magic|A rapier is a long, thin sword, good for quick, agile swordplay. They call it swordplay. It's not really playing. For you, this is a game. You're playing a game. Your poor little pixel adventurer is in constant danger, at your command. Play responsibly. Anyway, this is enchanted, and may help your little dudes.
Magic Shield_magic|This is a mid-sized shield. It's good for blocking blows from large weapons while poking your sword or spear around it. If really needed you can hit someone with it, but it's not at all an effective weapon, so don't expect to use it as one. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Short Sword_magic|A short sword is designed as a good sidearm, lightweight and quick to draw and swing in close combat. In a pinch they can be used as a primary weapon. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Sling_magic|This is a strap of leather which you can use to fling any object which you can fit into it at somebody. There's always something lying around to throw, which makes this device quite flexible and useful. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Spear_magic|A spear is a long, straight pole with a pointy thing on the end. It's good for impaling your foes. Some spears are balanced for throwing: These are called javelins. This is not a javelin you are examining. It is just a spear, although it seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Studded Armor_magic|This is hardened leather armor, with studs of metal poking through it. It's a step up from simple leather armor, as the studs will distribute blows a bit. This is the lightest armor most serious melee fighters will want to wear.  It seems someone has enchanted this suit. It may be even more effective than usual.
Magic Wave Blade_magic|This is an exceptionally well-crafted sword, the blade of which is forged into a distinctive wave pattern. The Vahnatai, a peculiar race that lives below the ground, are proud of these unusual swords – hard to use, but really painful. It seems that someone has enchanted this one. It may be more effective than usual.
Mandrake Root|This is an alchemical ingredient. If you know the recipe, have the right combination of ingredients, and have studied up on technique, you can use it to make a potion.
Martyr's Shield_magic|When you tightly squeeze the grip of this shield, glowing, ethereal spikes jut out of the front. After a while they fade away. This shield will probably help you fight off a foe in close combat.
Med. Curing Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Medium Curing P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Med. Energy Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Medium Energy P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Med. Healing Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Medium Healing P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Med. Invuln. Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Medium Invuln. P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Med. Skill Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Medium Skill P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Med. Speed Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Medium Speed P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Med. Strength Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Medium Strength P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Medium Poison|If you have the know-how, you can smear poison on your weaponry, causing the defender to become rather ill when you cut them. Be careful not to get it into your own system though. Poison is poisonous for you too.
Micah's Gloves_magic|Gloves are pieces of cloth or leather, stitched together in a shape that will cover the hands. They have many uses, but they will not usually provide protection from combat weapons. This pair, however, bears the crest of the Kingdom of Exile, and the seal of its wise king, Micah. If these were his, they may be rather special.
Mist Globe_magic|This is a gem or crystal. They can be very valuable, especially if they have few imperfections and are cut right. Some go beyond being pretty, though. A good crystal, besides enchanting the heart of the object of your affections, can be excellent enchanting material itself.
Mithral Broadsword_magic|Broadswords are broad swords. More specifically, they're big, heavy swords, with a lot of momentum. Most people can't wield them one-handed, but adventurers aren't most people. This one is made of mithral, a very rare metal which is very light but strong.
Mithral Chain Mail|Chain mail is made from interlocking rings of metal wire. It's very flexible and good at distributing blows, including blows from swords. A heavy enough blow to it will still result in shattered bones, but this one is made of mithral, a very rare metal which is very light but strong. It's a good find!
Mug|Civilized society tends to eat off plates, drink from cups, stab food with forks and knives, etc. Adventurers rarely have use for these things. They take up room in packs and add weight, so they eat with their hands, the old-fashioned way.
Nimble Gloves_magic|Gloves are pieces of cloth or leather, stitched together in a shape that will cover the hands. They have many uses, but they will not usually provide protection from combat weapons. It seems someone has enchanted this pair. They may be even more effective than usual.
Ogrish Gauntlets_magic|Gauntlets are metal gloves, designed to protect the hands and fingers. Once they grip a weapon, they make it harder to lose fingers, but they do not tend to allow for great flexibility or dexterity. It seems someone has enchanted this pair. They may be even more effective than usual.
Onyx Charm_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. This piece is meant to be worn about the neck. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Orb of Foul Vapors_magic|This is a gem or crystal. They can be very valuable, especially if they have few imperfections and are cut right. Some go beyond being pretty, though. A good crystal, besides enchanting the heart of the object of your affections, can be excellent enchanting material itself.
Orb of Sight_magic|This is a gem or crystal. They can be very valuable, especially if they have few imperfections and are cut right. Some go beyond being pretty, though. A good crystal, besides enchanting the heart of the object of your affections, can be excellent enchanting material itself.
Pants|They say that no matter how different we are from each other, we all put on pants the same way: one leg at a time. They don't account for people with tails, but the sentiment is nice.
Piercing Crystal_magic|This is a gem or crystal. They can be very valuable, especially if they have few imperfections and are cut right. Some go beyond being pretty, though. A good crystal, besides enchanting the heart of the object of your affections, can be excellent enchanting material itself.
Plate|Civilized society tends to eat off plates, drink from cups, stab food with forks and knives, etc. Adventurers rarely have use for these things. They take up room in packs and add weight, so they eat with their hands, the old-fashioned way.
Platinum Bar|This is an ingot of metal. Ingots are formed from molten metal poured into molds. It allows for easy storage and transport, compared to, say, carrying a sack of nuggets or coins. It's also easier to standardize the weight this way. The ingot may have a mark on it indicating its purity and place of creation.
Poison Darts_magic|These are throwing darts for combat, with an unusual feature: They look like they'll inject poison into whatever they stick into. They're still throwing darts and not blowgun darts complete with blowgun, but they still look like they'd be effective.
Poison Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Potion of Bliss_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Potion of Clarity_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Potion of Doom_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Potion of Paralysis_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Powder of Lethe_magic|This is a small pouch of powder. Dirt is a powder, but a small pouch of dirt has few useful or harmful properties. This probably isn't dirt, so be careful with it.
Power Geode_magic|This is a gem or crystal. They can be very valuable, especially if they have few imperfections and are cut right. Some go beyond being pretty, though. A good crystal, besides enchanting the heart of the object of your affections, can be excellent enchanting material itself.
Prismatic Wand_magic|A wand is a fancy stick or rod. Sometimes they're used for ceremonial purposes by clergy or royalty. This one is magical. Waving it will result in a magical effect or spell being cast, which could be good or bad...
Quicksilver Band_magic|You can hear something sloshing around inside this runed ring. If you gave it a good shake, something might happen.
Ravage Knife_magic|This knife can be used to slice vegetables for a lovely stir fry. However, it's mostly designed for stabbing people. Please wash it before slicing your vegetables. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual, perhaps even aiding in combat and not just cooking.
Regenerating Arrows_magic|This unusual quiver seems to refill itself as you fire its arrows. You won't have to worry about running out of ammo as long as you keep this close by.
Ressurection Balm_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Rubbing in this lotion will have some sort of effect on the body.
Ring of Fire Res._magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Ring of Free Action_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Ring of Resistance_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Ring of Speed_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Ring of Warmth_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Ring of Will_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Robes|Robes are the favored garment of most advanced spellcasters. Maintaining decency while granting free movement for arcane rituals has proven very valuable, although they are not the only option. They're also good for when you get out of the bath.
Rock|Rocks make wonderful companions! Unlike a dog or cat, pet stones never die, never get mad when you step on them, are often lovely to look at... Of course they're also good for lobbing at people's heads.
Rough Diamond|This is a gem or crystal. They can be very valuable, especially if they have few imperfections and are cut right. Some go beyond being pretty, though. A good crystal, besides enchanting the heart of the object of your affections, can be excellent enchanting material itself.
Ruby|This is a gem or crystal. They can be very valuable, especially if they have few imperfections and are cut right. Some go beyond being pretty, though. A good crystal, besides enchanting the heart of the object of your affections, can be excellent enchanting material itself.
Ruby Charm_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. This piece is meant to be worn about the neck. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Ruby Helm_magic|A helmet is a good way to protect your head from injury, taking hits and absorbing damage in the stead of your brain. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Runed Helm_magic|A helmet is a good way to protect your head from injury, taking hits and absorbing damage in the stead of your brain. It seems someone has enchanted this one. It may be even more effective than usual.
Runeshield_magic|This is a mid-sized shield. It's good for blocking blows from large weapons while poking your sword or spear around it. It seems someone has enchanted this one. They may be even more effective than usual.
Sapphire|This is a gem or crystal. They can be very valuable, especially if they have few imperfections and are cut right. Some go beyond being pretty, though. A good crystal, besides enchanting the heart of the object of your affections, can be excellent enchanting material itself.
Scale Necklace_magic|This is a large dragon's scale suspended from a leather cord. It burns your hand the tighter you squeeze it, but you feel deep, sibilant chatter moving through your mind at the same time. If you squeezed it hard enough, who knows what will happen?
Scroll: Charm_magic|This is a scroll of paper, vellum, or the like, inscribed with magical symbols. Reading it aloud will result in a magical effect, and the scroll will be destroyed in the process. These are great for those who can't cast spells on their own. No years of study and harsh apprenticeship; you just need to be literate.
Scroll: Fireball_magic|This is a scroll of paper, vellum, or the like, inscribed with magical symbols. Reading it aloud will result in a magical effect, and the scroll will be destroyed in the process. These are great for those who can't cast spells on their own. No years of study and harsh apprenticeship; you just need to be literate.
Scroll: Firestorm_magic|This is a scroll of paper, vellum, or the like, inscribed with magical symbols. Reading it aloud will result in a magical effect, and the scroll will be destroyed in the process. These are great for those who can't cast spells on their own. No years of study and harsh apprenticeship; you just need to be literate.
Scroll: Flame_magic|This is a scroll of paper, vellum, or the like, inscribed with magical symbols. Reading it aloud will result in a magical effect, and the scroll will be destroyed in the process. These are great for those who can't cast spells on their own. No years of study and harsh apprenticeship; you just need to be literate.
Scroll: Ice Bolt_magic|This is a scroll of paper, vellum, or the like, inscribed with magical symbols. Reading it aloud will result in a magical effect, and the scroll will be destroyed in the process. These are great for those who can't cast spells on their own. No years of study and harsh apprenticeship; you just need to be literate.
Scroll: Kill_magic|This is a scroll of paper, vellum, or the like, inscribed with magical symbols. Reading it aloud will result in a magical effect, and the scroll will be destroyed in the process. These are great for those who can't cast spells on their own. No years of study and harsh apprenticeship; you just need to be literate.
Scroll: Magic Res._magic|This is a scroll of paper, vellum, or the like, inscribed with magical symbols. Reading it aloud will result in a magical effect, and the scroll will be destroyed in the process. These are great for those who can't cast spells on their own. No years of study and harsh apprenticeship; you just need to be literate.
Scroll: Poison_magic|This is a scroll of paper, vellum, or the like, inscribed with magical symbols. Reading it aloud will result in a magical effect, and the scroll will be destroyed in the process. These are great for those who can't cast spells on their own. No years of study and harsh apprenticeship; you just need to be literate.
Scroll: Shockstorm_magic|This is a scroll of paper, vellum, or the like, inscribed with magical symbols. Reading it aloud will result in a magical effect, and the scroll will be destroyed in the process. These are great for those who can't cast spells on their own. No years of study and harsh apprenticeship; you just need to be literate.
Scroll: Shockwave_magic|This is a scroll of paper, vellum, or the like, inscribed with magical symbols. Reading it aloud will result in a magical effect, and the scroll will be destroyed in the process. These are great for those who can't cast spells on their own. No years of study and harsh apprenticeship; you just need to be literate.
Scroll: Slow_magic|This is a scroll of paper, vellum, or the like, inscribed with magical symbols. Reading it aloud will result in a magical effect, and the scroll will be destroyed in the process. These are great for those who can't cast spells on their own. No years of study and harsh apprenticeship; you just need to be literate.
Scroll: Stealth_magic|This is a scroll of paper, vellum, or the like, inscribed with magical symbols. Reading it aloud will result in a magical effect, and the scroll will be destroyed in the process. These are great for those who can't cast spells on their own. No years of study and harsh apprenticeship; you just need to be literate.
Shield Mace_magic|This mace is unusually shaped. It's thick and heavy, and the handle is reinforced. It could probably be used to block a blow, in addition to striking one.
Shield of Khar_magic|This shield bears the name "Khar". Perhaps this Khar was an adventurer like you. You have to wonder why it's not still in Khar's possession though. It may be a good or neutral reason, or it may be unfortunate...
Shield of Klin_magic|This shield bears the name "Klin". Perhaps this Klin was an adventurer like you. You have to wonder why it's not still in Klin's possession though. It may be a good or neutral reason, or it may be unfortunate...
Shield of Klud_magic|This shield bears the name "Klud". Perhaps this Klud was an adventurer like you. You have to wonder why it's not still in Klud's possession though. It may be a good or neutral reason, or it may be unfortunate...
Shield of Kron_magic|This ring bears the name "Kron". Perhaps this Kron was an adventurer like you. You have to wonder why it's not still in Kron's possession though. It may be a good or neutral reason, or it may be unfortunate...
Shielding Crystal_magic|This is a gem or crystal. They can be very valuable, especially if they have few imperfections and are cut right. Some go beyond being pretty, though. A good crystal, besides enchanting the heart of the object of your affections, can be excellent enchanting material itself.
Shirt|A good shirt keeps you warm in the cold, or breathes well in the heat and humidity. Some people, though, mostly wear them because society mandates it. That depends on the society though. Goblins usually don't care, for example.
Silver Ankh_magic|An ankh is an ancient symbol of the power of life. This silver one, hanging from a chain, seems to give you a nice, safe feeling when you touch it.
Silver Bar|This is an ingot of metal. Ingots are formed from molten metal poured into molds. It allows for easy storage and transport, compared to, say, carrying a sack of nuggets or coins. It's also easier to standardize the weight this way. The ingot may have a mark on it indicating its purity and place of creation.
Silver Necklace|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. This piece is meant to be worn about the neck. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance. This one included. It's worth quite a bit though.
Silver Ore|This is a lump of rock, glistening with precious metal. Nothing can be done with it in its current form. It's worthless for you but you could sell it. A metallurgist would like it.
Silver Ring|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance. This one included. It's worth quite a bit though.
Silver Ring of Accuracy_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Silver Ring of Prot._magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Silver Ring of Regen._magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Silver Ring of Skill_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance, but this one seems to be magical.
Silver Ring of Weight_cursed|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. Mostly they're for decoration or religious significance. Whatever religion this was significant for isn't one you want to be a part of, judging by the eerie inscriptions...
Silver Serpent Ring_magic|Jewelry is the ancient art of adorning the body with trinkets, shiny things, and small talismans. Rings tend to be worn on the fingers and toes. This one features a creepy snake design. It doesn't seem to be cursed, though. It may even be helpful...
Skull|Sadly, not everyone who goes on an adventure survives to tell the tale. This unfortunate soul, whether by a life of hardship or the fangs of a beast, has met its end and perhaps, with luck, has gone to a better place. And now you're disturbing its remains. How thoughtful of you.
Smite_magic|This heavy hammer is inscribed with arcane symbols. You recognize it as a legendary weapon from the early days of Exile: It's powerful on its own, but it will especially bring down to size any giant it strikes.
Smoky Crystal|This is a gem or crystal. They can be very valuable, especially if they have few imperfections and are cut right. Some go beyond being pretty, though. A good crystal, besides enchanting the heart of the object of your affections, can be excellent enchanting material itself.
Steel Axe|Axes, originally designed for cutting trees, have been redeveloped for cleaving skulls and beheading the condemned as well.
Steel Bardiche|A bardiche is a very long polearm with a large blade on one end. Unlike spears, it is meant for cleaving rather than stabbing. It is very difficult to use and must be held in both hands. It's good to use from a distance.
Steel Breastplate|Breastplates are chain mail armor with large plates of metal covering the chest. They offer more protection for your vital organs than simple chain mail, but they're rather heavy.
Steel Broadsword|Broadswords are broad swords. More specifically, they're big, heavy swords, with a lot of momentum. Most people can't wield them one-handed, but adventurers aren't most people.
Steel Buckler|A buckler is a small, light shield, worn on the forearm. These are useful for blocking blows in agile combat.
Steel Chain Mail|Chain mail is made from interlocking rings of metal wire. It's very flexible and good at distributing blows, including blows from swords. It's still heavy though, and a heavy enough blow to it will still result in shattered bones.
Steel Flail|A flail is one or more spiky balls of metal, suspended from chains at the end of a stick. They are operated by being swung around utilizing centipetal force, and then slammed into someone's face.
Steel Gauntlets|Gauntlets are metal gloves, designed to protect the hands and fingers. Once they grip a weapon, they make it harder to lose fingers, but they do not tend to allow for great flexibility or dexterity.
Steel Great Mace|The great mace. In case you want to splatter your foes instead of just killing them. The king of clubs, and we're not talking cards.
Steel Greathelm|This is a helmet, designed to protect the wearer's head and face. Most helmets will protect the crown of the head, the sides, and maybe the neck. This greathelm has shielding for the face as well, with slits to see and breathe through but otherwise offering good coverage.
Steel Greatsword|This is a really, really, really big sword. It's very unwieldy but if you manage to hit someone in the leg with one, they will probably not have that leg anymore.
Steel Halberd|A halberd is a long polearm with a spike and a blade on one end. It's good for stabbing and chopping, although due to its length it is difficult to use. It must be held in both hands.
Steel Hammer|This is a large hammer. This is not for driving nails, unless they are very large nails that are trying to kill you.
Steel Helm|A helmet is a good way to protect your head from injury, taking hits and absorbing damage in the stead of your brain.
Steel Knife|This knife can be used to slice vegetables for a lovely stir fry. However, it's mostly designed for stabbing people. Please wash it before slicing your vegetables.
Steel Large Shield|A large shield is, as the name implies, a very large shield. These are typically used in formation, with polearms sticking between them. They're also good for blocking arrows. They are very unwieldy and provide more protection than most shields, at the cost of the user's ability to attack effectively.
Steel Mace|An upgrade to the club, a mace is not just a heavy stick, but is actually a very sturdy stick with a big, heavy head at the end, coming in any number of shapes. Much more effective. You're still unlikely to impress anyone with it.
Steel Plate|Plate armor is made from multiple large, interlocking plates. They offer superb protection due to their weight and rigidity. The same weight and rigidity also make them very hard to move in, however.
Steel Plate Armor|Plate armor is made from multiple large, interlocking plates. They offer superb protection due to their weight and rigidity. The same weight and rigidity also make them very hard to move in, however.
Steel Rapier|A rapier is a long, thin sword, good for quick, agile swordplay. They call it swordplay. It's not really playing. For you, this is a game. You're playing a game. Your poor little pixel adventurer is in constant danger, at your command. Please play responsibly.
Steel Razordisks|These are flat discs of metal, the edges honed into a ring of small, razor-sharp teeth. Their aerodynamic shape makes them deadly in combat, but a novice user must take care not to cut themselves when throwing them. The Vahnatai, a race which lives far, far below the ground, are quite fond of these unusual weapons.
Steel Shield|This is a mid-sized shield. It's good for blocking blows from large weapons while poking your sword or spear around it. If really needed you can hit someone with it, but it's not at all an effective weapon, so don't expect to use it as one.
Steel Short Sword|A short sword is designed as a good sidearm, lightweight and quick to draw and swing in close combat. In a pinch they can be used as a primary weapon.
Steel Slith Spear|This is a long, straight pole with a multi-tined blade affixed to the end. The Slithzerikai use these unusual spears in combat. These should not be confused with tridents, which are multi-tined harpoons designed for fishing. A slith spear is not for fishing.
Steel Spear|A spear is a long, straight pole with a pointy thing on the end. It's good for impaling your foes. Some spears are balanced for throwing: These are called javelins. This is not a javelin you are examining. It is just a spear.
Steel Studded Armor|This is hardened leather armor, with studs of metal poking through it. It's a step up from simple leather armor, as the studs will distribute blows a bit. This is the lightest armor most serious melee fighters will want to wear.
Steel Wave Blade|This is an exceptionally well-crafted sword, the blade of which is forged into a distinctive wave pattern. The Vahnatai, a peculiar race that lives below the ground, are proud of these unusual swords – hard to use, but really painful.
Steel-Toed Boots|Boots are a type of footwear, usually for use during heavy physical activity that may endanger the feet or ankles. Some of them are more decorative than functional. These are functional. They have steel plates protecting the toes, but that obviously makes them heavier.
Stick|A long, often twisted or branched piece of wood, fallen or forcibly removed from a tree. May contain bark, twigs, and leaves. May also contain rot and bugs. You could hit someone with it, should you find yourself without a better weapon.
Stone Axe|Axes, originally designed for cutting trees, have been redeveloped for cleaving skulls and beheading the condemned as well.
Stone Club|Next to rocks, clubs are the simplest weapon in an adventurer's arsenal. Instructions for preparation and use: 1. Find something long and heavy. 2. Pick it up. 3. Whack someone with it. Pretty easy, although not always too effective.
Stone Knife|This knife can be used to slice vegetables for a lovely stir fry. However, it's mostly designed for stabbing people. Please wash it before slicing your vegetables.
Stone Mace|An upgrade to the club, a mace is not just a heavy stick, but is actually a very sturdy stick with a big, heavy head at the end, coming in any number of shapes. Much more effective. You're still unlikely to impress anyone with it.
Stone Short Sword|A short sword is designed as a good sidearm, lightweight and quick to draw and swing in close combat. In a pinch they can be used as a primary weapon.
Stone Spear|A spear is a long, straight pole with a pointy thing on the end. It's good for impaling your foes. Some spears are balanced for throwing: These are called javelins. This is not a javelin you are examining. It is just a spear.
Str. Curing Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Strong Curing P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Str. Energy Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Strong Energy P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Str. Healing Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Strong Healing P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Str. Invuln. Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Strong Invuln. P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Str. Skill Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Strong Skill P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Str. Speed Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Strong Speed P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Str. Strength Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Strong Strength P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Strong Poison|If you have the know-how, you can smear poison on your weaponry, causing the defender to become rather ill when you cut them. Be careful not to get it into your own system though. Poison is poisonous for you too.
Tasty Mushrooms|We need to eat food to survive. Sadly, not all of it is appetizing or up to the standards of modern society, but sometimes you have to take what you can get.
Throwing Knives|These blades are superb for a close morning shave. They're also good for tossing at things you want to kill. Don't ding them up too much with your beard, they won't be as aerodynamic.
Tome of Clarity_magic|Books are one of the most valuable innovations society has developed. Whether they contain historical information, valuable instruction on casting spells or performing a trade, or even just pleasant works of fiction, books have enabled us to share what we know with others, present and future!
Tome of Health_magic|Books are one of the most valuable innovations society has developed. Whether they contain historical information, valuable instruction on casting spells or performing a trade, or even just pleasant works of fiction, books have enabled us to share what we know with others, present and future!
Torches|Some parts of the lands you'll explore are very dark. Darkness makes it difficult to see where you walk, objects in your path, and who or what you are stabbing with your sword. Torches are lightweight, easy to pack, and easy to hold.
Uranium Bar|This is an ingot of metal. Ingots are formed from molten metal poured into molds. It allows for easy storage and transport, compared to, say, carrying a sack of nuggets or coins. It's also easier to standardize the weight this way. The strange ingot has no marks of purity on it, but it feels mysteriously warm to the touch...
Vahnatai Robes|This is a thin poncho of sheer fabric, translucent but surprisingly strong. The Vahnatai, a peculiar race which lives far below the ground, make these unusual garments from hammered fungus. Though designed for the Vahnatai's slight frames, these garments serve the stouter races quite well too.
Wand of Acid_magic|A wand is a fancy stick or rod. Sometimes they're used for ceremonial purposes by clergy or royalty. This one is magical. Waving it will result in a magical effect or spell being cast, which could be good or bad...
Wand of Carrunos_magic|A wand is a fancy stick or rod. Sometimes they're used for ceremonial purposes by clergy or royalty. This one is magical, and bears the name of Carrunos, goddess of the hunt. Supposedly she likes a challenging hunt, so this wand may be for that purpose...
Wand of Charming_magic|A wand is a fancy stick or rod. Sometimes they're used for ceremonial purposes by clergy or royalty. This one is magical. Waving it will result in a magical effect or spell being cast, which could be good or bad...
Wand of Death_magic|A wand is a fancy stick or rod. Sometimes they're used for ceremonial purposes by clergy or royalty. This one is magical. Waving it will result in a magical effect or spell being cast, which could be good or bad...
Wand of Fireballs_magic|A wand is a fancy stick or rod. Sometimes they're used for ceremonial purposes by clergy or royalty. This one is magical. Waving it will result in a magical effect or spell being cast, which could be good or bad...
Wand of Flame_magic|A wand is a fancy stick or rod. Sometimes they're used for ceremonial purposes by clergy or royalty. This one is magical. Waving it will result in a magical effect or spell being cast, which could be good or bad...
Wand of Nullity_magic|A wand is a fancy stick or rod. Sometimes they're used for ceremonial purposes by clergy or royalty. This one is magical. Waving it will result in a magical effect or spell being cast, which could be good or bad...
Wand of Paralysis_magic|A wand is a fancy stick or rod. Sometimes they're used for ceremonial purposes by clergy or royalty. This one is magical. Waving it will result in a magical effect or spell being cast, which could be good or bad...
Wand of Rats_magic|A wand is a fancy stick or rod. Sometimes they're used for ceremonial purposes by clergy or royalty. This one is magical. Waving it will result in a magical effect or spell being cast, which could be good or bad...
Wand of Slow_magic|A wand is a fancy stick or rod. Sometimes they're used for ceremonial purposes by clergy or royalty. This one is magical. Waving it will result in a magical effect or spell being cast, which could be good or bad...
Wand of Venom_magic|A wand is a fancy stick or rod. Sometimes they're used for ceremonial purposes by clergy or royalty. This one is magical. Waving it will result in a magical effect or spell being cast, which could be good or bad...
Wand of Vorb_magic|This magical wand bears the name "Vorb". Perhaps this Vorb was an adventurer like you. You have to wonder why it's not still in Vorb's possession though. It may be a good or neutral reason, or it may be unfortunate...
Weak Curing Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Weak Curing P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Weak Energy Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Weak Energy P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Weak Healing Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Weak Healing P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Weak Invuln. Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Weak Invuln. P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Weak Poison|If you have the know-how, you can smear poison on your weaponry, causing the defender to become rather ill when you cut them. Be careful not to get it into your own system though. Poison is poisonous for you too.
Weak Skill Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Weak Skill P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Weak Speed Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Weak Speed P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Weak Strength Potion_magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Weak Strength P._magic|This is an alchemical potion. Alchemists have long sought the secret to eternal life, searching for just the right ingredients and the right mixture and preparation for their potions. They fund these endeavors by selling simpler potions to the public. Drinking this potion will have some effect on the drinker.
Wormgrass|This is an alchemical ingredient. If you know the recipe, have the right combination of ingredients, and have studied up on technique, you can use it to make a potion.
Wyrmsbane_magic|Broadswords are broad swords. More specifically, they're big, heavy swords, with a lot of momentum. Most people can't wield them one-handed, although if one were very strong it could work. The pommel of this one is shaped like the severed head of a fanged lizard.
Yew Bow|A bow is a curved object, usually wood, with a string tied to both ends. When flexed and released, it can fling an arrow for quite some distance and with quite a punch.
